# Performance Review Q4

Quarter: Q4
Year: 2020-2021

Notable events?

- InfloHI
- UI/UX Meetings
- Supported Other members
- Introduced Whimsical
- Created Mind Map for Project
- Showed Enthusiasm for project
- Put requests in for new software
- Retros (Team Marley)
- Running Team In Dan's Absence
- Business Processes Advanced Screen
- Smaller Bugs
- Worked outside of expected hours
- Helped other teams
- 

**TREAT INFLO LIKE IT'S YOUR OWN BUSINESS**

**Results-oriented (3)**

**Decision-making (3)**

My expected level for these competencies is 3( Results-Oriented) and 3 (Decision-Making).

I do feel as though that I have met expectations as a Mid Developer and exceeded them in a few areas.

**Results-Oriented**

(**Met expectations**)

- Takes responsibility for solving problems
    - Very similar to my previous quarter, I feel like this is something that every developer should do in their day to day job - I believe that I am no exception. There has only been one occasion this quarter that comes to mind that I have not been able to solve an issue by myself, this revolves around #18885. Something that has carried over from the last quarter.
- Works diligently to find the most effective solutions when problems are encountered.
    - I feel like I do this on several occasions, more specifically when developing the advanced screen area - this was the first area that I have been entrusted to lead the development in. I created many Task lists & oversaw the code development of this piece of functionality. The UI aspect of this area caused several conversations, as in the first draft it wasn't really "Fit for purpose" and there had to be several wireframes designed before we got to where we needed to be.
- Thinks about the bigger picture
    - I think this is in line with my previous point, something that I have demonstrated on many occasions. To be honest, though, Dan encourages all developers in Team Marley to look at the flow of the code which allows you to get a bigger picture of what you are developing and identify possible bottlenecks or potential issues - I believe there is a direct correlation with this and the limited number of bugs that are caused by our team's code.
- Overcomes obstacles to achieving goals and uses failure as an opportunity to learn
    - The biggest point that comes to mind with this is #18885 - this ticket has a whole has been a learning curve for me. Being able to pair programme with Dan M on this has been a big benefit to me, It's given me the opportunity to bridge the gap to more experienced developers - I feel this experience has better prepared me to deal with this should it arise again.

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Takes initiative to research the effectiveness of solutions
    - This is kinda my bread and butter - I tend to do a lot of research outside of work in different types of implementation patterns, frameworks and technologies. By doing this, I feel as though I can better understand some flows of the code and more quickly understand areas.
- Continuously searches out and acts upon opportunities to improve quality, service and productivity.
    - I've put a fair amount of my personal time into researching software that would improve a developers workflow and productivity - this has ended with myself putting in some requests to whitelist software (Whimsical and SourceTree). For the upcoming Team project, I believe that I have shown real enthusiasm for using new technologies that aren't in our current stack to demonstrate to the wider audience.

**Decision-Making**

(**Met expectations**)

- Understands who will be affected by the decision and actively ensures their involvement
- Makes well-informed decisions in a timely manner
    - I feel as though I've learnt from my mistakes in the previous quarter. If I have a question or concerns about my ticket I shout much earlier. This is a lesson that I've directly learnt from #18885. Although there haven't been any other occasions like #18885, I feel as though that I have reached out to Dan M and Dom B on several occasions to make sure that I am going along the correct tracks and not so to say, stuck in the weeds.
- Consults with others where appropriate before implementing decisions
    - Very similar to my previous point, but in addition, I feel as though when making comments on code review points I tend to run through them with Dan or Dom if I am not entirely sure that I am correct in what I am trying to say.
- Develops alternative options to solve current issues/problems
- Explores the ‘what ifs’ and understands the impacts
- Generates options, potential solutions and recommendations
    - In terms of UI, I tend to create a number of different options if the individual who raised the ticket hasn't included a wireframe (or if it's been done in excel). I demonstrated this when implementing the new Advanced screen, Business Processes. I gave Andreea a number of different options, ones that I believed were better suited to the area.
    - In my day today, as a Mid Developer, there is an expectation to help other developers with their code. I feel as though that I have demonstrated this on a number of occasions when supporting the whole team in general, whether it is from a code review when I not only identify potential issues but I also provide solutions. In my code review, I have now taken an "If I were you" approach, this allows me to show my development preference without criticising other developers code. I feel in general that Team Marley do this across the board, everyone is encouraged to support and help one and other.
- Quickly understands complex concepts
    - Bar 18885, I feel that I have been able to understand concepts relatively well - there have been a number of tickets along the way, but I'm going to point to {TICKET NUMBER}. This ticket revolved came about an issue that I was having when developing a Multiple Select Dropdown list for the business processes screen (I don't believe that this issue got the recognition that it deserved) - the bug was essentially only the first selected item was ever passed back when multiple were selected. I was able to identify where the issue was coming from but the area was heavily using reflection and generics the former is something that I was not 100% comfortable with. I got Dan involved and he helped explain the area to me so that I could follow it more precisely. Working with Grant I was able to come up with a solution and implement it across the board - the reason I don't think that this got the recognition that it deserved was a global bug that affected essentially all the multi-selects in the application - if we went live without fixing it would have caused an unknown amount of issues. I'm going to refer to the Business Processes screen - this ticket requirement seemed to change a number of different times and I feel as though I adapted well and understood the new ask.
    - 18885.... Quickly, possibly not - but pairing with Dan has developed my process in how to deal with a ticket with that level of complexity again. 18885, isn't your run of the mill ticket - it was poorly scoped out and has taken a lot of hands to get it to where it needs to be.

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Develops sound business rationale to support chosen options
    - Probably where I have shined the most in this area is within the UI/UX committee - I feel that I have been able to contribute to a number of discussions around some of the decisions in the application.
- Acts decisively to address complex organisational issues
- Takes a stand and resolves issues important to business success
- Calculates the risks when committing to a major decision
- Develops a deep understanding of the issues, options and consequences

**DO AS YOU SAY YOU'LL DO**

**Effective Communication  (3)**

**Dependability (3)**

My expected level for these competencies are 3( Effective Communication) and 3 (Dependability).

I feel as though for this core competency I have achieved my expectations and have exceeded them in a number of areas.

**Effective Communication**

(**Met expectations**)

- Always approachable, receptive & shows an interest in other’s views
    - I believe that this is something of my nature, but Team Marley takes an culture of exploring other avenues and approaches. I think I'm not alone in saying the the culture that Team Marley has is an open approachable one, the biggest highlight for this is the virtual office, where members can drop by ask a question then leave if needed. I feel that I demonstrated this on a number of times, but I feel as though I am inquisitive when it comes to Team Marley retro spectives
- Openly shares information
    - This is something that I've have tried to do more and more - it not only aids my development but the development of other. I created the Javascript & Blazor channels in out Team 418 Team something that I tend to add to every now and then - these are usally snippets of code, useful commands or general knowledge that I have helped me in the past. When ever I come across material that interests me, I tend to share it across all developers - more recently with the Jetbrain's Conferences and Webinars (Dotnet Days and Docker).
- Adapts communication style to suit a variety of audiences
    - This is something that I have had to do in my code reviews - everyone deals with code critiques differently, there have been a number of occasions when I have called the individual before posting my comments on the code, just to run through everything that I have found, this also kind of goes hand in hand with my previous comment about how I now use "If I was you" in some of my code review points.
- Understands who will be affected by any issues/changes and ensures all stakeholders are kept informed
    - I feel all members in Team Marley do this well as a team, for me when it came to developing the Business Processes area when I came across any issues I involved the relevant parties to ensure that everyone was on the same page and we could work together for a solution, this specifically involved Andreea, Josh B, Chris G, Dan M, Shancie M and Graham.

**Dependability**

(**Met expectations**)

- Accurately scopes out the work, creates efficiently workflows and process
    - This is something that I have worked to improve on during my time at Inflo, before I start 'code slinging' I will map out everything that I need to do before starting a job - this not only allows me to understand the ask but also allows me to think about the implementation of the code thus enabling me to raise queries with Dan and/or Dom about my approach if needed.
- Develops reliable working rapport with customer and peers.
    - I imagine this is across the board in Team Marley and I probably sound like a broken record - we're a close knit group any issues that we have at an individual level becomes and team issue and we work together to resolve that issue
- Follows through and meets commitments.
    - 
- Available as a resource to subordinates and peers.
    - 

**Effective Communication**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Sets up processes to improve information flow at a wider level
- Actively promotes and provides information across Inflo
- Seeks to develop a mutual understanding between various people
- Routinely uses social media to promote the Inflo offer

**Dependability**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Regardless of the situation, will do everything possible to make sure that performance is steady and strong

**CONTINUALLY IMPROVE YOURSELF AND INFLO**

**Adaptability (2)**

- New Father adapting to the lifestyle
- Helping other members of the team understand Blazor.

**Inquisitive (3)**

- Learning other technologies outside of the stack (if adopted in the future would be in a good position).
- Looking further into the code base (root cause analysis)
- Going further to understand why things are done a certain way in the stack.

My expected level for these competencies is 2( **Adaptability** ) and 3 (**Inquisitive** ).

**Adaptability**

(**Met expectations**)

- Changes work plans or routines without complaint
    - 
- Willing to work with a wide range of people
    - 
- Can take on new ways of working without becoming unduly stressed
    - 
- Responds quickly to changing task priorities
    - 
- Accepts and understands the need for change
    - 
- Undertakes relevant learning and development activities to ensure own roles and responsibilities are fully met
    - 

**Inquisitive**

(**Met expectations**)

- Tries to break new ground and be creative when generating solutions
    - 
- Creates innovative working methods to generate new ideas
    - 
- Uses resources creatively and thinks laterally to identify new solutions
    - 
- Looks beyond the obvious
    - 
- Demonstrates resourcefulness
    - 

**Adaptability**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Helps others to understand the reason for the change
- Communicates change in a clear and helpful way
- Creates processes and practices which facilitate the implementation of change
- Creates a sense of shared vision and excitement for change

**Inquisitive**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Looks at things in a new way
- Devises new models and concepts that are not obvious to others

**CREATE A POSITIVE, OPEN AND HONEST ENVIRONMENT**

**Encouraging Thought Diversity (2)**

- Open dialogue with the team
- Communication in regards to code reviews encourages others the push back if they don't agree with my points & open a discussion.
- UI/UX new team encouraged to include Dom, experience in other companies

**Honesty (2)**

- Speaking out when I don't agree with something in a positive manner UI/UX
- Speaking out with a post from Cian
- Speaking out about a new process in the Dev team & the point of Velocity & how I felt we should be more project-driven (Now are going to be

My expected level for these competencies is 2(**Encouraging Thought Diversity**) and 2 (**Honesty**).

I believe that I have met my level 2 expectation and have exceeded these in several areas.

Encouraging Thought Diversity

(**Met expectations**)

- Listens to the opinions, concerns and ideas of others
    - 
- Considers the interests and concerns of others
    - 
- Realises how they can bring value to their role for the benefit of the company
    - 
- Demonstrates self-awareness of how they are perceived by others
    - 
- Understands the importance of a balanced home/work lifestyle
    - 

Honesty

(**Met expectations**)

- Listens to others
    - 
- Trustworthy
    - 
- Takes the time to understand the needs of internal and external stakeholders
    - 

Encouraging Thought Diversity

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Helps to create a welcoming environment by encouraging contributions from all individuals

Honesty

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Does not compromise on matters of ethics
- Is willing to publicly admit to making a mistake and does not “pass the buck”
- Demonstrates a commitment to the highest possible values
- Observes, anticipates and acts with regards to issues of fairness, transparency and honesty.

**PROACTIVELY DRIVE THE LONG-TERM SUCCESS OF OUR PARTNERS AND CUSTOMERS**

**Commercially minded (2)**

- Blazor,
- Outside research
- Different stacks
- Understanding how the 'user' uses the site (Andrea)
- UI/UX consistency

**Collaboration with partners and customers (2)**

- Understanding how the user will use part of the site.
- 

My expected level for these competencies is 2(**Commercially minded**) and 2 (**Collaboration with partners and customers**).

I feel that this core value is more difficult to hit as a developer who has no to limited contact with customers but I feel over the past quarter I have met my level 2 expectation and have exceeded these in certain areas.

**Commercially Minded**

(**Met expectations**)

- Seeks out work and development opportunities to enable improvement
    - 
- Clearly understands client needs and suggests appropriate options to overcome challenges
    - 
- Supports integration of new technology
    - 
- Suggests appropriate options to overcome challenges
    - 
- Looks ahead at potential problems and solutions
    - 

**Collaboration with Partners & Customers**

(**Met expectations**)

- Has a clear understanding of how their role impacts customer satisfaction
    - 
- Puts customer issues in order of priority
    - 

**Commercially Minded**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Open-minded and actively seeks opportunities to try out new ideas
- Creates innovative working methods to generate new ideas and Uses resources creatively
- Has a flexible approach to problem-solving, involving others, where necessary

**Collaboration with Partners & Customers**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Looks for ways to add value beyond customer immediate requests
- Explores and addresses the unidentified, underlying and long term customer needs
- Uses knowledge of customers, competitors and industry trends to determine the correct strategy, and leads the development of robust relationships with customers.

The obvious thing that sticks out for me when thinking of involving others is with my most recent ticket (#18885) - this is very possibly the most complicated task which I have been tasked to implement. It became apparent from quite early on that I would need support with this ticket - that much so that Dan M is a co-assignee to the ticket. To complete this ticket (still ongoing as of writing this), we have included no less than 3 peoples assistance not including Dan and myself. By including all the necessary people, it has allowed us to make significant progress with the ticket - without reaching out this would still be stuck in developer purgatory.

What has been rather beneficial is working more closely with Andrea - Over the past quarter, I have had to do several tickets in the Workpapers area, in certain tickets I have brought attention to specific tasks and asked the question why would we do this. Andrea, with her 10 years of experience clarified why we are doing this and explained how as a user I would expect the use the area - which has greatly increased my understanding of how our customer will use part of the application. My question was around the precision of risks, in regards to decimals.

I'll mention the UI/UX committee that I am now a part of, this is something that I am enthusiastic about. That is the reason that I expressed concern at a couple of areas in the stack and for a need for consistent UI/UX experience.

Beyond that, I do have an active interest in other areas - I tend to do a fair amount of research into different approaches, languages and various development related issues. A lot of what I research I tend to relay to my team and occasionally to wider development teams when an opportunity arises. Some of my research might never be in line with what Inflo would like to implement, nevertheless - It improves my knowledge and improves me as a developer and in the future could help me solve a potential issue.

**BE PASSIONATE AND CELEBRATE THE SUCCESS OF THE TEAM**

**Teamwork & collaboration (3)**

- Praising other team members in code reviews (Chris's for the use of switch lambda expression)
- Sharing & liking social media posts on LinkedIn
- Like company posts within Teams
- Praising others for quality of code
- Shanice for catching my bugs.

**Mission-driven (3)**

- Helping others with code reviews
- Helping others when they have code issues (josh & Chris)
- Posting content to Javascript & Blazor page.

My expected level for these competencies is 3(**Teamwork & collaboration**) and 3 (**Mission-driven**).

Over the past quarter, I've had quite a few opportunities that have allowed me to meet my level 3 expectation and surpass these in certain areas.

**Teamwork & Collaboration**

(**Met expectations**)

- Consults other teams to establish prior relationships with stakeholders
- Asks others for their ideas and opinions
    - 
- Works together to form decisions and plans
    - 
- Values, calls upon and utilises the experience of colleagues
    - 
- Willingly learns from other team members
    - 

**Mission Driven**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Act as coaches and mentors, providing crucial feedback and investing the time to develop newer employees

**Teamwork & Collaboration**

**(Exceeded expectations)**

- Openly praises other members of the team
- Empowers other members of the team
- Acts to promote a friendly climate and good morale

Very much like in my previous performance reviews - I think that as a whole Team Marley is perfectly set up to achieve both of these. The environment that Team Marley promotes allows these core values to flourish. I firmly believe that I play a positive part in this, and my addition helps the team succeed as a whole.

A way in which I found that I have been able to praise more frequently is within code reviews. There have been several occasions when I have been reading code and spotted a 'neat' way of doing something and that I thought was good and I praised the developer for it. Chris Gill, I praised for using a switch statement lambda expression - something that I hadn't seen before. In a couple of jobs that I had reviewed for Josh, how Josh's code flowed was very good and it showed that he had taken the time to think about how endpoints show flow.

Within this quarter, more developers within our team are undertaking blazor jobs and because currently within our team I am one of the more experienced Blazor developers I have been able to act as a "coach" on several blazor jobs. Acting as the first port of call - before Tom G. This has been great, it's allowed me to solidify my Blazor knowledge, it also gives me a sense of pride when I can enable another developer to complete a blazor ticket.

**Overview**

**Performance**

**Training and Development**